Notable citizens of Salzburg

Mozart's birthplace at Getreidegasse 9 The composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was 
born and raised in Salzburg and worked for the archbishops from 1769 to 1781. 
His house of birth and residence are tourist attractions. His family is buried 
in a small church graveyard in the old town, and there are many monuments to 
"Wolferl" in the city. The composer Johann Michael Haydn, brother of the 
composer Joseph Haydn. His works were admired by Mozart and Schubert. He was 
also the teacher of Carl Maria von Weber and Anton Diabelli and is known for his 
sacred music. Christian Doppler, an expert on acoustic theory, was born in 
Salzburg. He is most known for his discovery of the Doppler effect. Josef Mohr 
was born in Salzburg. Together with Franz Gruber, he composed and wrote the text 
for "Silent Night". As a priest in neighbouring Oberndorf he performed the song 
for the first time in 1818. King Otto of Greece was born Prince Otto Friedrich 
Ludwig of Bavaria at the Palace of Mirabell, a few days before the city reverted 
from Bavarian to Austrian rule. Noted writer Stefan Zweig lived in Salzburg for 
about 15 years, until 1934. Maria Von Trapp (later Maria Trapp) and her family 
lived in Salzburg until they fled to the United States following the Nazi 
takeover. 
Salzburg is the birthplace of Hans Makart, a 19th-century Austrian 
painter-decorator and national celebrity. Makartplatz (Makart Square) is named 
in his honour. Writer Thomas Bernhard was raised in Salzburg and spent part of 
his life there. Herbert von Karajan was a notable musician and conductor. He was 
born in Salzburg and died in 1989 in neighbouring Anif. Anthropologist Udo Ludwig 
was born here. Roland Ratzenberger, Formula One driver, was born in Salzburg. 
He died in practice for the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix. Joseph Leutgeb, French 
horn virtuoso Klaus Ager, the distinguished contemporary composer and Mozarteum 
professor, was born in Salzburg on 10 May 1946. Alex Jesaulenko, Australian 
rules footballer and AFL Hall of Fame player with "Legend" status was born in 
Salzburg on 2 August 1945. Georg Trakl is one of the most important voices in 
German literature and he was also born in Salzburg. Theodor Herzl worked in the 
courts in Salzburg during the year after he earned his law degree in 1884.[6]